This document has become obsolete for install purposes, but can still be read for more in depth explanation. 

# Databases
LATTE used NEO4J extended with APOC procedures to store research data. User data is stored in a separate SQLITE database. The latter work automagically if you have everything set up in your Apache configuration. The NEO4J database takes some time to set up, but all the heavy lifting is handled by Docker. These instructions are written for Windows environments. If you wish to use Docker to set up NEO4J it is required to have it installed on your machine. It is possible to deploy NEO4J without using NEO4J, note that you'll need to manually configure it and you will need to set up the APOC-plugin. If you have little or not experience with NEO4J it is recommended to use Docker. This guide assumes you have docker installed. 

## Configuring the docker-compose file.
A docker-compose file holds the configuration for the docker container. Here you determine the authentication between the database and the application as well as the directory which is used as a persistent volume to save data, to load the APOC-plugin from and to read the NEO4J configuration. 
Please not that APOC is required for the PHP-app to work. The following sections describe how to set these parts up:

### Preparing your system: 
- The `docker-compose.yml` file is included in the GitHub repo in `documentation/assets`.
- Download the dockerfile from the GitHub repo.
- Create a folder on your hard drive that's designated to hold the Docker data and configuration. 
    - e.g. `C:\dockerFiles\`
- In that folder create a subfolder `NEO4J`. The full path is now: `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\`. All data and configuration related to the Docker based instance of NEO4J is now stored in a dedicated folder. 
- Move the downloaded `docker-compose.yml` file and put it in the created `NEO4J` folder. To configure it, open it with an editor of your choice (e.g. [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/) ). You'll need to change the sections related to authentication and copy config files to their designated folders.

### Authentication: setting up a database user and password. 
-  **It's important to update the password of our Docker instance and the compose file uses a weak default**. 
- In the **environment** section you find the following entry: 
    - `- NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/password`
change the password to something more secure. And optionally change the username too. A abstract authentication string is: `NEO4J_AUTH=<username>/<password>` Imagine the username and password for the NEO4J database are "administrator" and "H7SG*0djE3vS" you should change the entry to `NEO4J_AUTH=administrator/H7SG*0djE3vS` The provided username and related password will have to be set in the web application `config.inc.php` file. 

### Persistent data: setting up a data folder.
The persistent data folder is needed so that changes in the data get stored across restarts of the Docker container. This is done by using volumes. By default the `docker-compose.yml` file instructs docker to create a volume `data` and mount it to the directory `data` in `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\` Unless you have good reason to change this, it is recommended to leave this as it is. You do not need to edit this, but you should create a folder `data` in `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\`. If you are redeploying NEO4J through Docker and wish to keep the data, you should also move the content of the original `data` folder to this new `folder`. The full path to this `data` folder is `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\data\`.

### Plugins: setting up a plugin folder. 
The plugins folder is required to load the APOC plugin. The correct version of APOC comes with the GitHub repo and can be found in `/documentation/assets/`. It comes as a .jar file with the name `apoc-4.4.0.1-all.jar`. Unless you have good reason to change the name of the plugins folder and volume you can leave these settings as they are. You hare however required to create a folder `plugins` and copy the `apoc-4.4.0.1-all.jar` file in this directory. The full path to this `plugins` folder is `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\plugins\`.

### database configuration: setting up a config folder. 
The config folder is required to set the behaviour of the NEO4J database. A template version is included in the GitHub repon and can be found in `/documentation/assets/`. It comes as a .conf file with te name `neo4j.conf`. Unless you have good reason to change the name of the config folder and volume you can leave these settings as they are. It is possible to modify the settings in `neo4.conf` for this please refer the Neo4J manual. If you want to import data from a .csv file you should modify to the import configuration in `neo4j.conf` to (temporarily) facilitate imports from multiple directories. Or configure docker to attach an `/import/` volume. The name of the created database by default is `latte`. It can be changed in `neo4j.conf` in the `dbms.default_database` key. Whatever value set to this key should be passed to the `config.inc.php` file in the web application. The configured `neo4j.conf` file should be placed in a `conf` folder the full path to this folder is `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\conf\`.

## installing the container according to your configuration: 
If all the required folders have been created, the plugin and config files been copied to the correct locations and the password has been changed, you can now install the container. 
- Open a PowerShell window in `C:\dockerFiles\NEO4J\` and type the following command: `docker-compose up -d`
- This will create a new docker Container as defined in the docker-compose file.