# Deploying the LATTE Web APP in Docker

## Goal
This guide will walk you through to deploy the LATTE web app using Docker. 

## Prerequisites:
- Docker
- Admin rights on PC
- When creating the network we assume you have NEO4J-deployed using the steps as written down in ```1.database installation.md```

## Step by step guide

1) Open your docker folder and create a new subfolder from where you will deploy your web app. 
    
    e.g. : ```C:\dockerFiles\WEB\LATTE``` 

2) Decide upon a URL you want to expose to; we're assuming local deployment. For this we need to edit our hosts file.

    e.g. : ```demo.test```

3) Copy all config files from ```documentation\assets\webdeployment``` and the empty ```html``` folder into the subfolder you created in step 1. You should have three files there.

4) Using the URL you decided up in step 2; update the files ```apache-config.conf``` and ```docker-compose.yml``` and replace in both files the references from ```demo.test```, to the URL you've chosen:

    **apache-config.conf**
    ```
        ServerName demo.test
        ServerAlias www.demo.test
    ```

    **docker-compose.yml**
    ```
        extra_hosts:
        - "demo.test:127.0.0.1"
    ```
    When done, save and close these files. 

5) Open a PowerShell window in the folder that holds these edited files to create the required Docker containers:
    ```
        docker-compose up --build
    ```

6) Edit the Hosts files. You can use MS powertoys for this or directly edit the hosts file and map demo.test to 127.0.0.1. This step is OS-specific.

    For windows edit the file: ```C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts```

    For Linux/Mac edit the file: ```/etc/hosts```

    and add the following content, if necessary replace ```demo.test``` by your chosen URL

```
    127.0.0.1   demo.test
```

7) Copy all content from the LATTE web app into ```C:\dockerFiles\WEB\LATTE\html```


## Creating the network:
Next up create a network that connects your NEO4J database to the LATTE web app installation. This is required to let the web app interact with a database where it will read from and write to.

We choose the name 'latte_network' as a bridge between the two containers. The commands below need to be run in PowerShell. 

    docker network create latte_network

    docker network connect latte_network neo4j_3-neo4j-1

    docker network connect latte_network latte-web-1

    docker network inspect latte_network

The first commands creates a network with the name 'latte_network'. The second command attaches a container identified by neo4j_3-neo4j-1 to this network. 

The containername can be found in Docker Desktop. Or can be retrieved using the following command: ```docker ps```, the container names will be displayed in the last collumn.

The third command attaches the LATTE web app container to the network. The containername can be found in Docker Desktop. The last command shows the network. From this final view you need to write down the 'Gateway' vlue for the latte_network you created. This address is required in the config file of the LATTE web app. 